
h2. Quick start

*clj* is a Clojure REPL and package management system.


*Install*
# Download <a href="http://incanter.org/downloads/clj-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-standalone.jar">http://incanter.org/downloads/clj-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-standalone.jar</a>
# Run @java -jar clj-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-standalone.jar self-install@
# Copy @~/.clj/bin/clj(.bat)@ to your path

*Try it out*
# Run @clj list@ to see what packages are installed.
# Run @clj search compojure@ to search for <a href="http://github.com/weavejester/compojure">Compojure</a> on <a href="http://clojars.org">Clojars</a>.
# Run @clj describe compojure@ to get a description of the latest version of compojure.
# Run @clj install compojure@ to install the latest version of compojure.
# Run @clj repl@ or @clj swingrepl@ to launch a REPL configured for all the installed packages.



h2. Documentation

*Usage:* @clj command [arguments]@

*Available commands*
*  @repl@: Starts a Clojure repl.
*  @swingrepl@: Starts a Clojure swingrepl.
*  @run filename@: Runs the given Clojure file.
*  @list@: Prints a list of installed packages.
*  @search term@: Prints a list of packages on clojars.org with names that contain the given search term.
*  @install package-name [package-version]@: Installs the given package from clojars.org, defaulting to the inferred latest version.
*  @describe package-name [package-version]@: Prints the description of the given package as found in the description field of its pom file.
*  @versions package-name@: Prints a list of the versions of the given package available on clojars.org
*  @remove package-name@: Removes given package from the clj-repo package list, must be followed by @clj clean@ and @clj reload@ to actually remove packages from the repository.
*  @clean@: Removes all packages from @~/.clj/lib@ directory.
*  @reload@: Reloads all packages listed by @clj list@.


Packages are installed in @$HOME/.clj/lib@, and can be used by applications other than @clj@
by including the jars in the directory on the classpath. For instance, to start a command line 
REPL with jline, run the following command: 

   @java -cp ~/.clj/lib/'*' jline.ConsoleRunner clojure.main@

*Installation*
Download the <a href="http://incanter.org/downloads/clj-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-standalone.jar">clj.jar</a> file (or follow the instructions below to build from source):

@wget http://incanter.org/downloads/clj-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-standalone.jar@

and either double-click on the jar file to run self-install, or run the self-install command from the command line:

@java -jar clj-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-standalone.jar self-install@


*Self-install will*
* create a @$HOME/.clj@ directory 
* initialize a local reposistory for Clojure packages in @$HOME/.clj/lib@
* create the shell and Windows batch scripts, 
** @$HOME/.clj/bin/clj@
** @$HOME/.clj/bin/clj.bat@



*Alternative installation directories*
You can provide alternative CLJ_HOME and USER_HOME directories by passing them as properties to the above java command. 

For instance, the following command creates the @.clj@ and Maven @.m2@ directories under @C:\@ on a Windows box (something I had to do since Windows had problems with my shared home under VMWare, \\vmware-host\...).

@java -Duser.home=C:\ -jar clj-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-standalone.jar self-install@


*clj scripts*
Once installation is complete, you should either add @$HOME/.clj/bin@ to your path, @export PATH=~/.clj/bin:$PATH@ on Unix/Mac OS X, or move the platform-appropriate clj script to a directory on your path.


h2. Build instructions

@lein deps@
@lein uberjar@
@java -jar clj-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-standalone.jar self-install@



Copyright (C) 2010 David Edgar Liebke

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License, the same as Clojure.


